the website in most business's case is
not for us we are not the buyer we are
not the person that's going to be
landing on the site and potentially
request to do business book a demo or
book a sales cool whatever the action is
we've probably got a warehouse full of
our Goods our services or if we're a
technology business we've got almost
unlimited Supply within reason of what
we can
deliver so one of the biggest issues is
that folks kind of spend all this time
designing building the copy the content
the messaging building out the pages but
they do it all for what they think looks
good as either the marketing or the
founder of the business the issue with
that is unless you fit your ideal client
Persona 100% which is pretty rare your
focused clients aka the people that you
want to inquire on your website or to
buy your stuff probably not going to
resonate with it as well as you think
they are
[Music]
I'm sharing how your B2B website can
generate a steady stream of qualified
leads or Demos in this episode we break
down everything from customer research
key website Pages we talk a bit about
marketing and what to avoid to make sure
your B2B website is going to act as your
very best salesperson Around the Clock
247 attracting resonating with building
trust with and converting in ideal
clients into sales calls or demos this
was taken from my recent chat Ryan
Alford oh if you haven't yet why not
join thousands of Legends enjoying my
weekday newsletter unusual B2B marketing
tips fresh podcast updates SEO ideas and
more head over to breaking
bb.com and hit the newsletter tab right
let's dive into the
episode yeah have
this both quandry and opportunity with
websites that you want it um you want it
to look great you want to be proud of it
you want this
aesthetic that you know has been the the
historical perspective of your brand and
all those things well in
reality you have this great opportunity
like you said to deliver
a sales funnel and
leads um if you can get out of your own
way and I think even today working with
particularly medium to larger companies
and maybe even small companies we you
know depends on who's in charge and what
their Aesthetics are but I think there's
even today the battle that happens with
what it looks like versus what it
does how do you approach that and is
that still a common refrain that you
hear yeah what it looks like versus what
it does so I think if I may there's
there's a mistake that a lot of folks
make with their website and one of the
biggest killers of website
performance is ego
so to to dive into that a bit deeper
what I mean by and that could be if
you're running a small business that
you're the founder and you're doing all
the work on your website yourself or
maybe you're getting a contractor maybe
you're a larger organization and you've
got a marketing team that are going to
be delivering it you've got a team of
exacts that can be delivering it but
what you've got to realize is as much as
we want our websites to look great have
great features have pages that share
information about us and so
on it the website in most business's
case is not for us we are not the buyer
we are not the person that's going to be
landing on the site and potentially
request to do business book a demo or
book a sales call whatever the action is
we've probably got a warehouse full of
our Goods our services or if we're a
technology business we've got almost
unlimited Supply within reason of what
we can
deliver so one of the biggest issues is
that folks kind of spend all this time
designing building the copy the content
the messaging building out the pages but
they do it all for what they think looks
good as either the marketing or the
founder of the business the issue with
that is unless you fit your idle client
Persona 100% which is pretty rare your
focused clients aka the people that you
want to inquire on your website or to
buy your stuff probably not going to
resonate with it as well as you think
they are um and we're often quite biased
right and I've done this I've made this
mistake on my own websites in the past
you become to attach to it you start
using copy and text like on your website
headlines like award-winning Best in
Class we've been in business 100 years
and all this kind of stuff which we
think in theory is going to work but
most of the time if folks are landing on
your website especially your homepage
which we can dive into the fundamentals
in a sec usually folks want to quickly
get an idea of kind of exactly what it
is you do how you going to help them and
how they can take that next step because
especially in the times we're in now
with AI fast improving people are time
time short so they don't have tons of
time to scroll through your website and
work out exactly what problems you fix
the value you bring to their life and
how to how to be able to contact you so
that's that's a taster into it for sure
I love the thought you know when you
started it this the first thing you said
ego you know we all you know think we
know what's best and we have what's in
our mind mind and a lot of times that's
serving like you said ourselves instead
of our audience instead of our Target
because I'll I it it reminds me a lot of
like discussions I've had over the years
with you know Marketing Executives and
clients and like having to tell them
that you
know the bragging stuff you know the
speeds the feeds the the stuff that that
you're so proud of you know about your
prod about your service about what you
do you're so proud of it but it doesn't
translate to necessarily
solving an issue or a problem for your
client and that sounds very much like
the discussion we're talking about now
when framing up especially the key
positioning on the homepage
right yeah yeah you're exactly right and
the these issues like you mentioned
there Ryan they're not just appropriate
for your website they're appropriate for
marketing in general these are
fundamentals right when you're when
you're building for when you're building
marketing assets be that website content
website messaging headlines be that ad
headlines whether it's for Google ads
whether it's for LinkedIn ads Facebook
ads Etc whether it's other marketing
collateral you've got to put yourself in
the shoes of your focused clients the
people that you want to stop in their
tracks attract grab their attention and
then
Point them to take an action whether
that's to learn more book a demo check
out your case studies whatever so one of
the biggest things that you want to do
like at the very start of a website
exercise is actually and of spend some
time whether that's yourself as a
founder or with your team and kind of
really get down to Basics like what
exactly do we want to get out of this
website because I think that's just an
exercise that people don't do they they
get into the design they get into the
exciting stuff but they they skip out
the fundamentals so in B2B most B2B
companies most folks that I've
interviewed maybe 350 or so marketing
execs on breaking B2B and from my
experience
typically what they want to see on a B2B
website is a quick idea of kind of what
you do or the problem you fix and how
you help um they want to see some proof
of results so that could be case studies
testimonials review videos
accreditations walkthroughs Etc they
want to see some kind of proof of your
offer an action so if you're like a
technology or software business maybe
it's a demo before trial um they usually
want to see how much it costs so some
kind of indicative um area of pricing
whether that's bpark figures starting
ranges packages they want to get their
questions answered so maybe you've got
FAQ sections or relevant section on
relevant Pages address those key
questions that come up in sales schools
and then they want an easy route to
speak to sales so maybe that's weaving
in a calendar or similar so someone can
book time directly on a sales reps
calendar or using a tool like re Vue
hero which is similar to calendly um or
a simple to fill out form or book a call
whatever that is so that that's usually
kind of the fundamentals of what people
want out B2B site but one tip that you
can do is if you really want your
website to resonate with these Target
clients that you actually want to buy
your stuff and generate leads for on
your website is this is something that's
skipped by a lot of websites and it's
understandable because it takes a bit of
time it's customer
research so what I'm saying here is
basically into viewing anywhere between
if you can 5 to 10 recently signed or
recently onboarded clients or if you
don't have access to that as a new
business maybe folks that fit your
target Persona like the people that you
want to go after and you may have to
offer them something like a free consult
or something perhaps that's kind of a
free low ticket item you can provide but
from these people you can get golden
nuggets which is really going to make
your your messaging your headlines your
content resonate because these are the
people you want to attract and convert
this is where you can ask them things
like if it's a recently onboarded
customer what was the frustrating
problem that kind of tipped you over the
edge was becoming so annoying that
stopped you in your tracks that kind of
made you decide that it time to fix it
and reach out to a company like ours and
that's G be really impactful for your
headline
um something like that is useful to know
what do you care about seeing on vendors
in our sector in our industry's website
like what are the main things you
quickly want to learn see and take
action upon again these are golden
nuggets because it's actually going to
give you the spill the tea on what
people actually care about seeing on
your site um how do we stack up in your
opinion to other agencies or other
companies or other similar businesses in
our sector um and if you have got an
existing website you can ask questions
around what do you feel is missing on
our current website that can give you
some real insights like they might say
we don't have a pricing page or your
case studies are quite thin or I
couldn't really understand exactly what
it is you do or it's quite difficult to
contact you so my point here is you're
doing these 5 to 10 interviews using a
transcript tool maybe like otter or
similar so you can kind of dissect the
notes after each call on zoom and then
from there you want to look in P you
want to look for patterns once you do
five to 10 inusual you'll see patterns
in people's responses you'll see common
things that come up like might be this
is the juicy problem we fix this is the
main outcome people want as a result of
working with us for for clients we've
already worked with this was the main
outcome we actually brought to them okay
excellent we can use this problem in
this solution and our maybe our webs
headline I.E we do X that fixes y as our
headline um and you get all this juicy
Intel that's going to basically mean
that you're not designing and building
your website on guesswork you're
building your pages your content your
messaging and more based on what real
potential clients or existing clients
care about learning seeing and doing so
that's one of the vital steps takes a
little bit of research work but if
you're a kind of growing organization
it's something that's going to be worth
it's wet in gold
so it's it just means your website's
going to convert better in short let me
ask you a question Sam and that is very
good practical advice it makes a lot of
sense like when you're listening you
know the only thing like like I that I
when I when I think about that and I
think about like and I know we're
talking B2B and it's it's different but
so I just want to talk
historically
um consumers don't always tell the
truth whether they're you know like it's
kind of like if you Steve Jobs would
have asked consumers if they wanted the
iPhone or if they wanted an iPod or an
iPad if you would have described ask
them and I know that's that's a
transcending category so but at the same
time it's like when do you know your con
your cons constituents your consumers
you know do they really know how to
frame and tell you what they want and
what they need you know have you ever
come across where you felt like you know
you've been doing that research and
you're like this I know what they're
trying to tell me but I don't know if
they're quite distilling it to what
really is
valuable yeah yeah yeah so there there's
a few elements to this so I'm not a
customer research expert um but we've
interviewed a few on on breaking B2B
podcast so you you've asked a great
question there and one thing you want to
be careful with is who you interview so
you don't want to interview folks that
are biased towards you so that could be
long-term customers because they like
and trust you already and they're
probably just going to say anything
that's pleases you yeah so if you
interview like your cousin your auntie
yeah of course you built stuff for or
likewise maybe customers that have been
with you months or years don't interview
them they're too biased you want to
interview folks that you've only just
onboarded because they they they don't
know that much about you really yeah um
or or prospects that maybe even a bit
cold that just fit that kind of profile
the type of business the sector the the
turnover that you're going after and the
reason we want to do kind of five to 10
or so interviews is so we're not biased
so we're looking for those patterns and
what people say and you've got to dig in
so you've got to be willing so for
example if if you said to them look what
are the the main frustrations that might
cause you to look at a product or
solution like ours if someone gives you
a surface level answer like I don't know
maybe revenue is dropping you'd say
something like why is revenue dropping
and that's why they might say well we
finding it we take it's taking more and
more time for us to deliver this service
or to deliver this suion and then you go
what do you mean by that when you they
might go say something like let's Pro
let's pretend for a minute we provide
accounting software they might say well
we're finding that our reps are stuck in
Excel sheets for hours each day trying
to work out these these uh statistics
and these Solutions and you go okay so
what kind of what what's that doing to
business well all these hours could be
used on client work which would mean
that we could turn over stuff much
quicker and that's that's where you're
getting to the root of the problem so
there's a few elements to it and this
could be a huge discussion itself but
one is interviewing folks that aren't
biased two is not being afraid to dig in
when you're asking these kind of
questions and thirdly it's looking for
the patterns so the things that keep
coming up whether it is around the
problem you fix whether it is the value
you provide kind of the solutions what
folks care about um to to dig out those
golden nuggets that you can then weave
into your website messaging ads
messaging Etc yeah I've had this debate
with people um and that's a great answer
Sam I think it makes a lot of sense and
I've had this
debate with certain people at a broad
level of our and I'm using the word
we're talking about B2B consumers here
um in this context but I I'll you know
instead of calling them B2B
professionals we'll just call them the
consumers of this discussion so you know
are
consumers be are they problem
aware do they truly know you know it's
like do they know their
problem I have that discussion with
people sometimes like I'm not sure they
know their
problem yeah and then not always yeah
it's like they they know there's issues
but they you don't know exactly what the
problem
is yeah yeah yeah usually as as business
owners or as marketers in general when
you're doing this kind of stuff you have
to go in with a theosis or an assumption
so you might say like for example like
one of our if I give you like a tangible
example like what we've got as a
business we have three main problems
that we we tend to fix one is you're
frustrated when Target clients search
for your offer or your service
competitors constantly ahead of you on
Google kind of stealing traffic or an
opportunity the second is um maybe
you're getting traffic to the website
but it's failing to convert into a
steady flow of inbound leads well the
third is you've got an agency already
perhaps you're a bit wary or a bit
concerned they're not delivering um so
that was the three in our case the three
problem statements that I refined over
time but I didn't use those straight
away in my case I put them to the test
so I'd grab this Intel from customer
research but then I thought wait let's
Let's test this out so I did cold
Outreach using it Cod email I did COD
calls myself to my target market to VPS
of marketing CMOS marketing offices
demand generation folks kind of high
level B2B companies and see if it
resonate I put posts out on LinkedIn
with these kind of problem statements
and then weaving in stories to see if it
resonates to you a big part of not just
website design and messaging but
Marketing in general is going in with
assumptions or
ideas and then running experiments to
see if they actually resonate with your
target market some will fine keep them
rolling some you might test on ads for
example for I don't know couple months
maybe less and then they flop so great
I've learned that that doesn't work
let's move on to the next test was there
anything uh in that exercise that
surprised you like was there a maybe a
hypothesis that you would just
absolutely have thought to be true that
just proved
otherwise um well I mean I've I've
fallen flat on my backside many times
with things
um not so much of that because I had
gathered that with kind of interviews
I've done over over so much time on my
podcast and stuff like that so I was
pretty sure but when I first started for
example when I first started selling
websites and SEO and stuff like that I
used to think that the only way that I
could do that was to wow wow potential
clients so I thought that as in my case
as a Founder selling that it was my
responsibility to just knock the socks
off people straight away and before they
could kind of get a word in edgeways I
should say things like well we've been
in business 10 years we've won all these
Awards I've got all these case studies
I've done all this stuff which there's a
time and a place for that but as you
probably know if it's the first time
speaking to someone on a sales call
usually you do a bit of a discovery so
after you've done the pleasantries you
say well what are you doing in business
right now like what's working what's not
what's caused you to kind of be open to
this comp conv ation yeah um how are you
tackling this right now like how's it
working out for you what are you
struggling with and then then you dig in
you dig in like a lot of marketing in
sales is digging in to understand the
prospect's current world any
frustrations they're having if they're
expensive frustrations and and where
they're trying to get to like a great
book in this is Gap selling by a chap
called Keenan that told me a lot of this
kind of stuff working out the size of
the Gap and if it's something you want
to do but yeah that that just gives you
one example like I used to think that
you had to wh people all the time and
really it's more about understanding and
resonating with folks compared to just
trying to of make yourself sound really
cool backbite I'll distill that it's
about them and not
you that that says it in a lot fewer
words thank
you yes H talking with Sam ding he's the
founder of breaking B2B Sam let's get
let's get back to the nitty-gritty on BW
websites uh uh I know we've talked about
some of the high level fundamentals but
uh yeah maybe talk about some of those
deadly sins and you know what is the
ideal B2B
website yeah yeah let's let's dig into
kind of a few of the the fundamental
pages and then we can test some of those
apart so we talked a bit about research
we touched a bit about the homepage so
there's there's a good test that you can
run on your website now so there's a
test coined by a chap called I believe
Donald Miller great book called building
a story brand he says you should run
something on your homepage the hero area
which is the banner area before you
scroll called the grunt test and what
that means is could you stick your
homepage in front of a caveman sitting
in his cave in caveman times he he fires
up his laptop someone stuck a laptop in
front of him for the first time ever
he's wiping the dust out of his eyes he
sees your homepage and could he grunt
exactly what you do how it helps him and
how to get in touch within 3 to five
seconds of firing up that homepage
screen on his laptop if not then your
website is not hitting the mark and
you're potentially losing traffic and
potential leads so you could run that
test right now like you could get
someone that's never been on your
website to to check it out maybe it's
your grandma maybe it's your friend
maybe it's someone you're connected to
on Facebook or LinkedIn get five to 10
of those people to run that test do they
quickly know what you do how it is you
help and how to get in touch if not then
you need some work on clarifying that
message straight away um so that's one
killer test on
homepage um and then typically what you
want to do on the homepage is after
you've got that clear message statement
you then want to weave in some social
proof so that could be clients you work
with logos accreditations maybe then as
people scroll through you talk about the
problems you fix how you fix some of
your key Solutions and you have clear
call to actions for folks to maybe view
more work or book a call or whatever
it's relevant um but yeah if we dive
into some of the fundamentals of of
websites one big sin that I see is is
Page speed so as a I was mentioning
earlier people these days if they're
firing up your website on their laptop
their PC or their mobile phone and
they're usually time sensitive so if
you're waiting for a site to load and
you want to get some business done and
it's taking three seconds 5 Seconds even
10 seconds to load up on their device
then people are going to get frustrated
have a bit of a sour taste in their
mouth about your site and probably head
to a competitor that gives them a better
experience and then you've wasted a
potential referral you've wasted ad
spend or however you've guided them to
your website so a quick fix you can do
by that is you can go on a tool called
Google page speed insights and copy and
paste your website URL and it gives you
actionable tips it'll say look this is
your website speed right now out of 100
here's some main issues that you can do
to improve your website speed and it
gives you some tips straight away um but
common culprits we see a lot of folks
these days websites are built on tools
like WordPress so some of the main
suspects of a slow website things like
way too many plugins maybe you're trying
to embed too many videos on the page
maybe you're not optimizing your web
website images so you've got massive
jpegs that are like several megabytes
when you could do web bbased images um
so those kind of things just trying to
put too much content on the page that's
perhaps going to take ages to load too
many plugins or maybe the website
platform like WordPress just isn't up to
date which can slow things down so those
are some of the common culprits on that
side of things um and then I I'll go
into a couple more so one uh one
controversial one that a lot of fol
folks especially in the B2B or the
service-based industry space absolutely
hate is sharing pricing on the website
so I'm uh I used to be in in the other
Camp I used to think n it's it's you
don't you don't want to share your
pricing on your website like you want to
generate as many quote unquote leads or
inquiries as possible but after kind of
running businesses for for many years
and after having to to deal with so many
inquiries that just simply didn't have
budget to work with us be that for a
service or a product I kind of learned
the hard way so if you're a technology
business like you sell software or
software as a service it's easy to have
your typical bracket like tier one 25
bucks a month tier two 50 bucks a month
Enterprise plan speak to
sales where you where it gets a little
bit tricky is where companies that are
often more of bespoke more of a custom
service that's where they'll push back
on me so they might say well I can't
share pricing Sam because everything we
do is tailored and I'll say that's fine
but surely you have a rough idea I.E
even on my pages on our web I'll say
like prices start from 3K a month
whether that's for SEO prices start from
this well maybe have three tiers right
plan a typically 3 to 5k plan B by to 10
plan C Enterprise speak to sales but one
thing is when you build out a pricing
page you'll notice that it's probably
one of your most visited pages on your
site people want to want to check how
much it cost cost the reason it's good
is because it will kick weed out Tire
kickers so if you're getting a lot of
poit inquiries it'll weed those out but
it can be a really good page to actually
build trust so you can on the top of
your pricing page share your main plans
and price but then you can weave in some
social proof to build trust so maybe a
relevant customer review video a nice
testimonial with a story of problem you
fixed how you helped a customer and the
results they gained with their picture
and their job title and then this is the
little hack as you scroll down you can
have an FAQ frequently ask questions
section but here you have questions you
actually get asked on sales calls and
common objections so for example on our
pages I literally answer things I get
asked on sales schols like Sam why is
your SEO so expensive compared to other
agencies isn't Google ads way quicker
compared to waiting for SEO and organic
search to take impact um how do you
compare to other businesses in your
space like all these questions I get on
sales schols I address them headon the
reason I do that on the service and
pricing page is because it saves me time
on sales calls and it even spe speeds up
deals Cycles because folks read this
they're more educated they trust me more
for being transparent and they're more
inclined to do business with us so those
are just a few tips there's there's
plenty more there's uh Sam do you
think your prospects spend more or less
time than you think on the
website you know like I have that you
know debate sometimes or internally
probably more than anything like how
much time are they willing to spend here
you know like today's
age all depends right
so in very simple terms the visitors to
your website can be distilled into
either warm prospects warm traffic or
cold traffic so if they're warm traffic
I.E let's say someone referred or
recommended you probably not going to
see that much and your website has got
to do quite a lot wrong to deter that
Prospect from getting in touch with you
like booking your cool or whatever yes
but it can be done so for example if if
you make some of those deadly sins like
you someone recommends you but then they
go onto your website and they think it
takes ages to load doesn't work very
well on my smartphone the design
resembles that of a potato and I'm
trying to click onto Pages they're just
taking ages I can't see any results any
testimonials any examples of work can't
check the price someone's going to get
frustrated you can even drop off warm
leads um and they might not spend that
much time all they want to do is
validate you trust check that they can
trust you before they get in touch but
then if we flip it to the other end of
the spectum Ryan cold traffic maybe
someone that's come in from an ad maybe
they found your blog post on
Google that's when your website needs to
work a heck of a lot harder this this is
the first time someone's ever stumbled
on your website they might be reading an
article they might have found a service
page straight away you've got to give
good a good first impression again the
Design's got to resonate messaging got
to resonate like we talked about earlier
with research it's got to load nice and
quickly it's got to give them the
information they're looking for quickly
if they're if you're selling a high
ticket service that's several thousand
pounds or dollars then they're probably
not going to necessarily inquire with
you on the first time of visiting your
website ever they might flick around a
few pages they might check out your
results your case studies your price
they might look at some FAQs but then
they might hop off your website so they
might spend a couple minutes and that's
where you might want to consider doing
something like retargeting so running
retargeting ads the channels they hang
out on whether that's Facebook
retargeting LinkedIn retargeting Etc
because not everyone's going to visit
your um going to inquire on your website
for the first time so that's kind of how
you can split those two two types of
traffic and you'll see with cold traffic
sites got to work a lot harder compared
to kind of warmer prospects that are
referred in yeah it's true and you know
depending on where your traffic sources
are might guide some of those decisions
if you feel like you know if you're
driving a lot of cold traffic then you
know you you have one and it does bring
up the you know what Master how many
Masters are we serving you know like I
I'm sure you get into this so there's a
lot of businesses that if you're selling
one thing you know it's it's sort of an
easy you know there's the right way to
do it and there's you know you're
driving leads I'm sure you have get in
this discussions maybe companies that
come to you that are more comp complex
tons of departments tons of services and
those kind of things how does the
process work I mean you know how do you
have those discussions with those more
complex
businesses yeah yeah yeah that's where
websites get more in depth when
companies have tons of services
especially in the software space if
they're kind of well established massive
Enterprise level companies where they've
got perhaps businesses they've acquired
they've got all these different Tools in
their tool set all these different
softwares or service offerings that's
where it gets complex um and that's
where websites can even attract like you
said tons of different personas so there
might be one kit of software but they're
they're having options that sell to
marketing exacts the sales exacts to
operations to HR and that's where again
the research is fundamental you've got
to know all those personas you got to
know the problems they care about the
expensive problems you got to know their
goals jobs they want to get done and the
end results they care about you've got
to consider a lot of stuff on this
website you've got to consider all the
main service pages that they might
potentially want to see you've perhaps
got to consider how this website is
going to rank on Google search so
organic search from an SEO search Eng
optimization play and how it's mapped
out from that sense um you've got to
consider there might be colder of medium
level warmer traffic and what we want
folks to do when they land in your site
so we want to give them a clear idea of
kind of what we're doing how we're
helping maybe if if we're providing a
high ticket service then initially we
want folks to sign up to a lead magnet
so maybe download a guide or we want to
point them to our podcast want to get
them to check out our email list so it's
so much of this is understanding those
Persona understanding those actions you
want people to take understanding what
the roote to Market is I what different
marketing channels are we going to be
driving to this website um whether
that's SEO whether that's Google ads
whether that's kind of social ads which
going to be less higher intent um
because people are browsing social
whether that's email
referrals Etc what pages we driving
people to so a lot of this like you
you'll see from what I'm saying is just
getting back to those Basics and
understanding who we're targeting where
we're bringing them in for what's going
to resonate with them and and what kind
of actions we want them to take and
there there's no long or simple answer a
lot of it involves big a lot of a lot of
it involves a lot of planning out
researching and designing then building
and then testing over time right it
sales you should think of your website
is almost a living thing because there's
always things that you can measure with
your analytics like the traffic
conversion rates session time how long
people spend on it there's always things
you can do from that side of things
analytical you can always be talking to
prospects to learn what they like what
they think could be improved Etc so
there's always edits that you can be
making to your site as well a Content
standpoint design page standpoint and so
on I think this is all you know as you
were talking and I was thinking through
it like distilling this into the the
opportunity or the challenge depend on
how you want to look at it when you
think about
websites versus landing
pages and so that's a lot of the the
challenge because you think about a
website and I always you know the
classical sense thought of it as the
brochure for the brand in a way your
digital brand your digital brochure
but the promise and the opportunity of
digital marketing ads content you know
LinkedIn ads Facebook ads YouTube ads
wherever or programmatic you know
wherever your
B2B ads might be keeping this B2B
focused you know the landing page for
that ad needs to quickly pay off and
Lead
get to a lead
ultimately and I think that's I think
some of the fundamental challenge of and
then you get into SEO and thinking about
you know how to rank for keywords well
if you've got a brochure type site lots
of copy lots of opportunity to bring to
life keywords on page off page all those
things that I think that's the challenge
in my mind I think for companies and
even myself in thinking through landing
page P versus website brochure
information yeah how would we just that
for our
audience that that
dichotomy I I'd even throw one more in
the mix as well but I'd
say like I always say if you're a if
you're a brand new company and perhaps
your bootstrap like you've got very
limited cash I actually would say don't
worry about kind of research all that
stuff talked about until you're more
evolved and you've got a good flow of
Revenue and cash flow I'd encourage you
to more do a more simplified
website page yeah yeah exactly it might
be a landing page might be three to five
pages just homepage Services results
contact yeah that kind of stuff but to
your point for a landing page I think
landing pages are great if you've got
one specific offer one specific action
you want folks to take so if you're sign
if you're sending traffic from I don't
know Facebook ads whatever and your one
action you want them to take to download
a guide Playbook or watch a video or
maybe even a low ticket investment like
50 bucks for this thing it ain't going
to work on something that's high ticket
because this a first time en counting
from the ad so it's got to be a low ask
um and that page has got to work super
hard it's got kind of build Trust share
results all that good stuff um if it's a
one single offer landing pages great um
they can they can guide people to
download that guide download that
Playbook sign up invest in a loow take
offer fine and then you can email them
over time they join your list you can
remarket to them and then you might be
able to push them into higher ticket off
offers over time but especially in
busines to business B2B marketing
nothing's ever that simple when you're
when you're in high ticket offers when
your the service that you're providing
is maybe several Grand a
month or high tens of thousands a year
people don't just go on to your website
once and inquire or buy it's just not
that simple I'll give you an example
someone recently came through our
website and we we have a field on our
calendar booking form called for how did
you hear about us They said LinkedIn on
the sales call a couple days later I
said oh hey man like how's it going what
was your route to stumbling upon us
today was it LinkedIn he said oh no man
I listened to your podcast for like six
months then I connected to you on
LinkedIn then I saw your content then I
trusted that you could deliver listened
to a few more episodes hopped over to
your YouTube channel and eventually
reached out
High ticket buying is Messy as anything
man so landing pages just won't work for
that kind of stuff right um they're
going to jump onto a bunch of channels
and your website is one piece of the
puzzle your Google ranking might be
another piece LinkedIn might be another
piece Facebook might be another piece
your podcast so they're all assets right
they're all distribution channels that
feed into it landing pages have their
place but if you're selling higher
ticket stuff it's just not that
simple yeah it's like the customer
Journey for B2B it's F uh you know
there's a great discussion around that
and again asking the customer like gets
dangerous because you know and what's
funny to me is you'll hear all of that
you know like what you just
described and then when you get
underneath it hey my buddy Fred said you
guys are
awesome you know like they did all of
that but it started with uh you know
cousin Fred at the grocery store line or
whatever uh it there's always a
attributing sales is a funny thing yeah
exactly um that's where uh some of the
biggest Market I've worked with before
they they're like if you ask them you
know is your marketing working
absolutely I know where exactly 50% of
it
works it's always that other
50% that keeps them up at night it is uh
it all it all work it's very
difficult it's just you don't always
know the path that they're going to find
it um that's it that's it you can never
know 100% I mean a lot of you'll notice
a lot of what I talk about is involving
your your clients your customers getting
regular feedback loops from them but
using the tools so with websites you've
got tools like Google analytics and
various other tools that can tell you
like someone converted or they inquired
on this channel or the websites picking
up traffic from various channels like
Google ads organic search Facebook ads
email whatever then you can use forms on
your website for how did you hear about
us make them fill out that form then you
can ask some on sales calls and you can
constantly do a feedback loop so you can
make informed decisions based on all
those different channels and all those
putting all those different pieces of
data together can you be 100% sure God
no got to constantly evaluate it because
like I say the buying journey is so
messy yes Sam as we close out here any
final tips tricks or uh things that you
counsel people
on yeah I I mean to to summarize what
we've discussed I mean your your website
can quite literally be your very best or
be your very worst salesperson depending
on how you research design build update
and Market it so in most companies case
they want it to be their best so don't
neglect it even if you even if 90% of
your business is Word of Mouth the
referrals like we touched on earlier
those folks are probably still checking
your website and you don't know what you
don't know so you're not to know about a
lead that you missed you're just going
to miss it so if that website isn't
hitting the mark like it's taking ages
to load it's not presenting the
information they care about seeing it's
not building confidence with results
it's not sharing the key piece of
information they need you're losing
leads losing potential business that you
didn't even know is coming through the
door and your competitors are getting a
free lunch so that's that's what I'd uh
I'd urge you to to consider I love it
good advice though you don't know what
you don't what you're missing out on
that's that's the scary thing you know
now you don't know how many people are
dropping off uh if they're not getting
to the bottom of uh at least the form
fill or something like that nothing
worse than that and there we have it I
hope you found this B2B website
breakdown of use and if you haven't yet
why not check out our weekday newsletter
for more unusual B2B marketing ideas and
stories SEO tips as well as fresh
podcast updates head over to breaking
bb.com and hit that newsletter Tab and
with that I'll catch you on the next one
cheers
[Music]